ro.boot.cpuvulkan.version  u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact int
ro.boot.cuttlefish_config_server_port  u:object_r:vendor_cuttlefish_config_server_port_prop:s0
ro.boot.hardware.egl u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact string
ro.boot.hardware.gralloc u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact string
ro.boot.hardware.hwcomposer u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact string
ro.boot.hardware.vulkan u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact string
ro.boot.lcd_density u:object_r:vendor_graphics_config_prop:s0 exact int
ro.boot.vsock_keyboard_port  u:object_r:vendor_vsock_keyboard_port:s0
ro.boot.vsock_confirmationui_port  u:object_r:vendor_vsock_confirmationui_port_prop:s0
ro.boot.modem_simulator_ports  u:object_r:vendor_modem_simulator_ports_prop:s0
ro.boot.vsock_touch_port  u:object_r:vendor_vsock_touch_port:s0
ro.boot.wifi_mac_prefix  u:object_r:vendor_wifi_mac_prefix:s0 exact string
ro.vendor.wifi_impl u:object_r:vendor_wifi_impl:s0 exact string
ro.vendor.boot_security_patch u:object_r:vendor_boot_security_patch_level_prop:s0
vendor.bt.rootcanal_mac_address  u:object_r:vendor_bt_rootcanal_prop:s0
vendor.bt.rootcanal_test_console  u:object_r:vendor_bt_rootcanal_prop:s0
ro.vendor.hwcomposer.display_finder_mode  u:object_r:vendor_hwcomposer_prop:s0 exact string
ro.vendor.hwcomposer.mode  u:object_r:vendor_hwcomposer_prop:s0 exact string
ro.vendor.hwcomposer.pmem  u:object_r:vendor_hwcomposer_prop:s0 exact string
vendor.wlan.firmware.version   u:object_r:vendor_wlan_versions_prop:s0 exact string
vendor.wlan.driver.version     u:object_r:vendor_wlan_versions_prop:s0 exact string
